The man is void of compassion - would have been a superstar. Yeah still scared
of group identity more than ever - I've come to the conclusion that
homogenizing forces that don't cherish the individual's thinking and personal
experience such as; self-prescription of identity, or worse the prescription of
identity on to others - and that whole modality of thinking - is a truly
devilish utility with which the vengeful and power hungry can and do manipulate
the masses. When you hold distinct identity you void yourself of the
responsibility of thinking - just look at what the acceptable perspective of
the group is which you subscribe to that voila you have "your" opinion
(thinking not required!)......... So yeah, if people don't choose to change
their ways I fear it will inevitably lead to various forms of totalitarianism
and dystopic realities, I've had a few visions and it's so scary. I think now
is the time more than ever when it is important to promote radically insightful
and compassionate thinking and help free ourselves of all prescribed beliefs.
my own words

Oh one other idea that came to mind (which I should really record) is that I
still see group identity as positive for those have collectively suffered - a
way to sympathise and help each other through comradery - kind of in
contradiction to my earlier points

Ok so responding to your first question... Yes I believe that many of JP's
points are valid even if they come from a place of non-compassion. I think his
non-compassionate approach truly limits his audience, and misguides his some of
his alt-right audience which ends up being actually increasingly divisive -
which is what he has expressed he is trying to combat - so it's in a way
counter productive. I'm not sure if HE is actually creating ideology - but yeah
I could see how this could rise

