
Rigel Rozanski Side point (center point? = ME): Just to be totally clear, this
conversation is about ME the centerpiece of the dialog. I don't like the
academic community, it's an isolated echochamber of obfuscated word garbage
(generalization). SO I'm excited to comprehend YOUR ideas on the basis of no
prior knowledge required. I'm talking: baby me through your ideas like your
first born. Explain to me the history, tell me your experiences, draw the
connections. MAKE IT MAKE SENSE. 

@Oliver - Cool points, wish there was some kind of an expanded format blog post
* cough * medium * where we could take the time to really unwrap some of those
points (with input from cool friends). My desire is to have a super clear
discussion about a couple of JPs ideas, namely ideas surrounding group
identity, without the academic jargon juice, you know something a non-academic
could read, comprehend, and apply. I haven't yet been able to find any writings
which satisfy this, however I have of course come up with my own rational
critiques. 

^ I think this is why JP has broad appeal, he lays out the argument from the
ground up (if any foundations are clearly lies obviously that's a good place to
start for a critique) - I think in this way, given the audience, any critique
which is to have lasting impacts must be written in the same form, the baby
form, for me, rigel, your most favourite child who knows nothing, I want your
ideas to hug me.


Oliver Samuda I agree completely about the wack ass obscurity of academia! give
me time to think of where the ground lies upon which I can build up my
arguments; although i agree with your analysis of JBP's appeal lying in the
clarity of his arguments, i would make the counter-argument that his greatest
weakness lies in making deeply complex topics appear far simpler than they are
in truth. ideas should be accessible, but there is some advantage to an
academic context in which prior knowledge can be assumed, from which we filter
out what is right and wrong

@Oliver Responding to "but there is some advantage to an academic context in
which prior knowledge can be assumed" 

Yes of course this makes sense (if people knew what they were talking about),
and when the time is right and an idea has been refined into something of true
value worth disseminating, then that idea should be regrounded into something
palatable for 5 year olds - I don't get the sense that this is common practice,
probably because the idea can't be regrounded because it's dung. I suspect, the
embedded assumptions in some of the "prior knowledge" can creep up on you and
invalidate an idea if one is not meticulous, so it's valuable to reground your
ideas often even before planning on sharing them. 

Personally, I literally don't take anything at face value, this includes common
knowledge and what some consider facts. In that sense, I don't even really
trust ideas from authors I like, although I may be swayed to consider them in
more depth, similarly I don't discredit ideas from authors I think are terrible
humans, although I may not give the idea the time of day. Unless an idea has
been proven to me through experience or good ol' rational comprehension it's
just spam. Hopefully if others really take the time to digest knowledge the
assumptions/constraints an idea carries with it can be parsed and considered
when forming new ideas from those assumptions - unfortunately, I doubt most
people and academics take the time to consciously understand ideas in this form
- it becomes obvious when listen to them speak. As so concludes why I'm
skeptical of academic writing with literally any prior knowledge required, in
other words I'm generally distrusting of people's capacity for comprehension -
and actually my own capacity for comprehension, nice to constantly be making
sure I'm not operating on unknown assumptions. ME


Duncan Chalmers Not going to argue about whether he's a bigot, but I'll try and
articulate why I think some non-deplorable people like his message. 

A lot of people feel directionless, depressed and like their life has no
purpose. This is the result of many things (economic insecurity and the general
malaise of living to name two), most of which are outside of our control. One
way of dealing with this is to become resentful because things aren't the way
they should be (and that very well may be true). But resentment (even if it's
fair) is not actionable in a way that can improve your situation, and therefore
just becomes increasingly destructive. Peterson offers an alternative way of
viewing your life, that is tangible, and about taking action on what few things
you can control in your life. Rather than lingering in anger and depression,
you can actually improve your experience of life by constantly moving forward
and doing things. I think this approach, although simple, actually works for a
lot of people, and that experience of improvement causes a lot of people to
trust Peterson, even when numerous people find some of what he says
disagreeable.

I also don't think the point of this article was to have you side with
Peterson, but rather explain his popularity as an attempt deal with a genuine
problem (which Rigel seems to agree with).



Rigel Rozanski ^ real talk. If it wasn't clear from previous comments (check
out the other discussion btw - it's pretty good), convincing people of anything
(besides loving me) is the mindset I totally want to avoid, I don't want to be
convinced of your perspective, nor do I want myself or anyone else to convince
you of their own. 

I'm going for the home run: understanding. Even better, conveyable and mutual
understanding. Only through mutual understanding I think some semblance of
ideological harmoniousness can be reached, which is, as far as I can tell,
certainly not what JP is promoting. 

Really the point of any thread like this I post is to bridge understanding, not
toss rhetoric. I happen to think group-identity is simultaneously interesting
and terrifying and I think it's important people keep discussing it.

JP seems like a dubious character, and I hope you are not convinced to take
anything he says at face value - but I like Duncan's diagnosis.



Jax Mil You could get that basic self-help message from someone who isn't espousing dangerous reactionary views! Like I guess that part apparently doesn't stand out if you're a cis white dude, but there's a reason neo-nazis are latching onto him as much as sad apolitical boys, and this crossover element is why he's so dangerous. I've never seen him say anything of intellectual merit so I don't even know what kind of ''discussion'' is taking place right now. Personally I get super distrustful of anyone who can listen to JP and take him at all seriously because he's literally promoting ideas that are dangerous to women and anyone who isn't cis. Check out any of the links I posted.



Rigel Rozanski "Personally I get super distrustful of anyone who can listen to
JP and take him at all seriously because he's literally promoting ideas that
are dangerous to women and anyone who isn't cis." I understand that you have
likely put me in this category, which saddens me. But alas I will need to live
with what my reality of continuing to seek out ideas boundlessly, there is no
way I can feel fulfilled if I am living in perpetual fear of inflicting hurt, I
will end up hurting myself to much.  ... Similarly I am distrustful of those
take anyone's word at face-value, especially those who allow themselves to be
led by those who spew rhetoric from time to time (JP is in this category). In
the same vein I am also inclined to be heavily distrustful of many of JPs
critic, because, to me, there is a lot of rhetoric there, which simply does not
resonate with me. 

"You could get that basic self-help message from someone who isn't espousing
dangerous reactionary views!" took me a minute to unpack, Yes I agree... any
suggestions? I'm less in it for the self help - much more into the discussion
about what this beast called group identity is, dangers and benefits. 

"Like I guess that part apparently doesn't stand out if you're a cis white
dude, but there's a reason neo-nazis are latching onto him as much as sad
apolitical boys, and this crossover element is why he's so dangerous." Real
talk, if you're not attacked by JPs rhetoric you're obviously going to be more
willing to listen to what he has to say. I also agree that there are many
dangerous group identities which are forming around JP, namely, alt-right, and
the fact the JP hasn't spoken against them with strong conviction is a huge red
flag

"I've never seen him say anything of intellectual merit so I don't even know
what kind of ''discussion'' is taking place right now" Welcome to the
discussion :) I actually really value your view Jax and I'm happy you have the
energy to speak up for what you see is wrong about JP - I'm literally begging
more perspectives like yours - in my life there are many close friends whom I
love deeply who hate JP and think he's the worst and is strictly promoting
hate, HOWEVER there are also close friends reasonable friends who think he's a
genious. I love and trust both groups of friends so naturally this puts me in a
place of inner conflict. Personally I find his assertion on the importance of
self-responsibility refreshing, and his void of compassion towards otherness
entirely disheartening. 

"Check out any of the links I posted." Straight up wack clips - doesn't make me
feel good, certainly not.












